pt 1 of refinement (#647)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/modules/con_openshift-preparation-for-block-storage-adoption.adoc

= {OpenShiftShort} preparation for {block_storage} adoption

> Before you deploy {rhos_prev_long} ({OpenStackShort}) in {rhocp_long} nodes, ensure that the networks are ready, that you decide which {OpenShiftShort} nodes to restrict, and that you make any necessary changes to the {OpenShiftShort} nodes.

Author: This sentence without the attributes translates to "Before you deploy RHOSP in RHOCP nodes". Is that accurate?

Reviewer: Yes, you need to consider all those things before you begin the adoption.

> Before you deploy {rhos_prev_long} ({OpenStackShort}) in {rhocp_long} nodes, review the following information to ensure that the networks are ready, that you decide which {OpenShiftShort} nodes to restrict, and that you make any necessary changes to the {OpenShiftShort} nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you deploy {rhos_prev_long} ({OpenStackShort}) in {rhocp_long} nodes, ensure that the networks are ready, that you decide which {OpenShiftShort} nodes to restrict, and that you make any necessary changes to the {OpenShiftShort} nodes.
```

< . . . >
----
+
For more information about node selection, see link:{defaultOCPURL}/nodes/index#nodes-scheduler-node-selectors-about_nodes-scheduler-node-selectors[About node selectors].
+
[NOTE]
====

> If your nodes do not have enough local disk space for temporary images, you can use a remote NFS location by setting the extra volumes feature ()`extraMounts`.

Author: Does the parentheses () before `extraMounts` need to be there?

Reviewer: I don't think so.

====
Transport protocols::
Some changes to the storage transport protocols might be required for {OpenShiftShort}. Before making changes, review the following information:
+
* If you use a `MachineConfig` to make changes to {OpenShiftShort} nodes, the nodes reboot.

> * Check the back-end sections that are listed in the `enabled_backends` configuration option in your `cinder.conf` file to determine the transport storage protocol that the back end uses.

Author: The two bullet points that start with “Check the back-end” and “Depending on your back-end” seem like they're both saying different ways to find the back ends. So, if the user can't find the transport storage protocol in the `enable_backends` option, they should check the `volume_driver` or `target_protocol` options?

Reviewer: That's something that is poorly written (by me).  It should have said something like:

```
Check the back-end sections in your `cinder.conf` file that are listed in the `enabled_backends` configuration option to determine the enabled storage backend sections.
```

The idea is, you go and check `enabled_backends` within the `[DEFAULT]` section and you'll see one or more names, then you look for those names in the existing sections to see their configurations where you'll have the `volume_driver` configuration and optionally the `target_protocol`, and you usually can figure out the kind of storage transport protocol being used with the values assigned to those options.

* Depending on the back end, you can find the transport protocol by viewing the `volume_driver` or `target_protocol` configuration options.
* The `icssid` service, `multipathd` service, and `NVMe-TCP` kernel modules start automatically on data plane nodes.

NFS:::
** {OpenShiftShort} connects to NFS back ends without additional changes.

Rados Block Device and {Ceph}:::

> ** {OpenShiftShort} connects to {Ceph} back ends without additional changes. You must provide credentials and configuration files to the services.

Author: Why is it significant to mention that you must provide credentials and configuration files to the RBD and Ceph services? Is this different from other services?

Reviewer: Yes, it is different to most of the other drivers.

In general you can pass your credentials (username, password, etc.) as configuration options, but with Ceph you actually require files to be there.

iSCSI:::
** To connect to iSCSI volumes, the iSCSI initiator must run on the

> {OpenShiftShort} hosts where the volume and backup services run. The Linux Open iSCSI initiator does not support network namespaces, so you must only run one instance of the service for the normal {OpenShiftShort} usage, as well as

Author: What is considered “normal RHOCP usage”?

      - enabled: true
        name: iscsid.service
----
** If you use labels to restrict the nodes where the Block Storage services run, you must use a `MachineConfigPool` to limit the effects of the

> `MachineConfig` to only the nodes where your services might run. For more information, see link:{defaultOCPURL}/nodes/index#nodes-scheduler-node-selectors-about_nodes-scheduler-node-selectors[About node selectors].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`MachineConfig` to the nodes where your services might run. For more information, see link:{defaultOCPURL}/nodes/index#nodes-scheduler-node-selectors-about_nodes-scheduler-node-selectors[About node selectors].
```

** If you are using a single node deployment to test the process, replace `worker` with `master` in the `MachineConfig`.

> ** For production deployments that use iSCSI volumes, configure multipathing.

Author: Why is it recommended for production deployments to configure multipathing?

Reviewer: Because it's more robust (tolerant to network failures) and can also provide better I/O.

FC:::

> ** The {block_storage} volume and {block_storage} backup services need to run in an {OpenShiftShort} host that has host bus adapters (HBAs). If some nodes do not have HBAs, then you need to use labels to restrict where these services run. For more information, see link:{defaultOCPURL}/nodes/index#nodes-scheduler-node-selectors-about_nodes-scheduler-node-selectors[About node selectors].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** The {block_storage} volume and {block_storage} backup services must run in an {OpenShiftShort} host that has host bus adapters (HBAs). If some nodes do not have HBAs, then use labels to restrict where these services run. For more information, see link:{defaultOCPURL}/nodes/index#nodes-scheduler-node-selectors-about_nodes-scheduler-node-selectors[About node selectors].
```

** If you have virtualized {OpenShiftShort} clusters that use FC you need to expose the host HBAs inside the virtual machine.
** For production deployments that use FC volumes, configure multipathing for better I/O.

NVMe-TCP:::

> ** To connect to NVMe-TCP volumes, you must load NVMe-TCP kernel modules on the {OpenShiftShort} hosts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To connect to NVMe-TCP volumes, load NVMe-TCP kernel modules on the {OpenShiftShort} hosts.
```

            # This is the rfc2397 text/plain string format
            source: data:,nvme-fabrics
----
** If you use labels to restrict the nodes where Block Storage

> services run, you need to use a `MachineConfigPool` to limit the effects of the `MachineConfig` to only the nodes where your services run. For more information, see link:{defaultOCPURL}/nodes/index#nodes-scheduler-node-selectors-about_nodes-scheduler-node-selectors[About node selectors].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
services run, you need to use a `MachineConfigPool` to limit the effects of the `MachineConfig` to the nodes where your services run. For more information, see link:{defaultOCPURL}/nodes/index#nodes-scheduler-node-selectors-about_nodes-scheduler-node-selectors[About node selectors].
```

endif::[]
** After the {OpenShiftShort} nodes reboot and load the `nvme-fabrics` module, you can confirm that the operating system is configured and that it supports ANA by checking the host:
+
----
$ cat /sys/module/nvme_core/parameters/multipath
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
ANA does not use the Linux Multipathing Device Mapper, but {OpenShiftShort} requires `multipathd` to run on Compute nodes for the {compute_service_first_ref} to be able to use multipathing. Multipathing is automatically configured on data plane nodes when they are provisioned.

Multipathing:::
** Multipathing is recommended for iSCSI and FC protocols. To configure multipathing on these protocols, you perform the following tasks:
*** Prepare the {OpenShiftShort} hosts
*** Configure the Block Storage services
*** Prepare the {compute_service} nodes
*** Configure the {compute_service}
** To prepare the {OpenShiftShort} hosts, ensure that the Linux Multipath Device Mapper is configured and running on the {OpenShiftShort} hosts by using `MachineConfig`. For example:
+
[source,yaml]

> ----

Author: In the following code, can we remove the comments that have a hashtag? The comments are rendering in the doc preview, so customers will be able to see them.

Reviewer: The comments were meant to be seen by customers. The 3 comments explain:
- What the file is doing (2 things)
- What the "weird" `mode: 384` actually means for the file permissions, as people are not used to see this value as a decimal number but as an octal number instead.
- What the format of the data in `source` is and how they can use a different way of providing the contents.
